Git is Version control for code 

For Windows we use Windows PowerShell Command line 

Command Line Commands : 
1. ls : Lists all the files and folders in the current folder.
2. cd : is to change the directory(foldedr ), i.e. to change the folder.
3. cd.. : is to go back to the previous folder from the surrent folder.
4. pwd : is Print Working Directory. It prints the path of the working or current directory, starting from the root.
5. 

Creating a Version 

Lets create the first version of our code in the version history

so the first step is to set up git inside this folder that contains the code 

to do that the command is 

git init : Git will start tracking all changes in the current folder


To create a new version the command is git commit -m "" so here m is message and version = commit 

git add . 
git status 
git commit -m "Message"
git log 
git log --all 
git log --all --graph
git reset . 



GITHUB 

Online backup of our code using Git and Github. 
We do online backup from our computer if our system stops working, or we dont have the system at the point of time where you want to use your code. its helpful to always maintain online backup 

Git repository is a folder that contains our code that is being tracked for changes by git. 
Github is specifically designed for git repositories. It has a lot of features that allows us to manage our code and version history. 
Other services like Github is : Bigbucket, GitLab.

1. First lets create a GitHub account. 
2. Creating a Online backup

Create new repository

local repository is the  the folder on our computer. Local refers to things on our computer. 

remote repository is that is online. remote refers to things that are online 

Upload our local repository into the remote repository.

Open git bash 

git remote origin "url"

git remote 

git remote -v , v here is verbose that is give more details. 

Upload to GitHub is Push, i.e. pushing our code to Github
Download the code from github is Pull, i.e. pulling our code from GitHub

so before that we shall configure our credentials by 

git config --global credential.username "github username"

now we shall push 

git push origin master . So here origin is the remote repository name where will be pushing our code to and Master is the 

git push :  We push one brach of commits at a time 


